In this lecture, we will start creating a React app by rendering a message to the browser.
Our goal is to create the simplest React app possible.
We're going to continue working inside the Stack Blitz project.
If you haven't, you should create an account.
By doing so, you can revisit your project after opening your project.
Open the index JS file.
Inside this file we're going to import React by typing the following code.
Import.
React from react.
Do you remember the include function from PHP?
It allowed us to share code between files.
The idea of separating logic into separate files is not special to PHP.
Various languages offer solutions for breaking an application into multiple files.
JavaScript has a system called modules for sharing code between files.
It's more complex than PHP solution.
Let's break down this line of code.
A file is functions and variables can be loaded into a file by typing the import statements after the
import statement.
We must specify a name for the code that gets imported.
You can think of it as a variable name.
Unlike PHP, functions that can be found in another file are exposed via a variable.
If we want to reference functions from other packages, we can do so through our variable.
Afterward, we need to tell JavaScript where to find the file.
And this example we're telling JavaScript to import code from a package called React.
The packages name must be the same name that can be found in the package JSON file.
Node is an intelligent tool.
We're not specifying a path, but the name of a package.
Regardless, node will be able to find the package.
We've officially imported react into our project.
The next step is to begin using its functions for creating an app.
The question is where can we find a list of functions that are available in the resource section of
this lecture?
I provide a link to the React API documentation page.
This page will have a complete list of functions, examples and descriptions for this package.
React offers various functions, but we're only going to need one.
Let's head back to our projects below the import statement.
Create a variable called H one.
The value for this variable will be the react dot create element function.
We're starting with a function called create elements.
This function will create an element that can be displayed on the documents.
It has three arguments.
The first argument is the name of the element.
We're trying to create a heading.
Let's set the name of the element to H one.
Next, we need to provide a list of properties a.k.a attributes.
For this example, we're not going to have attributes.
Let's pass in null.
By passing in.
No, React will not add attributes to the elements.
The last argument is the inner content of the elements.
Typically, developers will add text or load additional elements.
Let's keep it simple by rendering text.
We've successfully created an element.
However, this element does not appear on the page.
React doesn't automatically insert the element into the page.
The element is created in memory.
This behavior is a good thing.
We don't want react to start inserting content wherever it pleases.
The element must be manually inserted into the document.
That's our next step.
At the top of the file we are going to import the React Dom slash client package.
React is not just a library for web development.
Mobile and desktop applications can be developed with React.
The core of a React can be found under the React package.
The job of the React package is to manage elements, however it does not render them.
If we're interested in inserting a react element into the documents, we must import the React Dom package.
This package exports function for interacting with the browser.
Both packages will be necessary for this example below the H one variable define a variable called root
element.
Its value will be the document dot, query, select or function.
Before rendering the element onto the page, we must select an element.
This element will be the location of our application.
We're using the query selector function to select the element.
If you can recall, the starter project has a div element with an ID of root.
Let's select this element.
Next we must instruct react to treat this element as the root element of the application.
Create a variable called root.
Its value will be the react dom dot.
Create root function.
This function accepts an element from the document.
Let's pass in the root element variable.
Everything is ready.
Time to start rendering the page below.
Our variables run a function called root render.
The render function is responsible for displaying an element on the page.
It has one argument which is the element created by React.
Let's pass in the H one variable.
Perfect.
Our text has been rendered on the page.
We've successfully created the most basic React application possible.
However, what if we want to render multiple elements?
That's possible too.
Let's take our example a step further.
As we discussed before, elements are created with the create element function.
The third argument can be a string for representing text.
However, we can change this to an array similar to HTML.
React elements can have children elements.
Children elements can be inserted by adding them into an array.
Let's convert the third argument into an array.
After doing so.
Let's change the element from an H one tag to a div tag.
The variable name will be updated to be sure to update the variable name inside the render function.
As an exercise, try loading three elements.
They can be any elements you want.
Add them to the array.
Pause the video and give it a try.
Welcome back.
If you're able to add three elements, that's great.
If not, that's fine too.
Let's go over the solution together inside the array.
Let's run the react dot create element function.
It doesn't matter if you're creating a parent or children element.
The create element function can handle both scenarios.
Let's run this function two more times.
I'm going to create a heading element with two paragraph elements.
If your solution has different elements, that's completely fine.
As long as you can create elements, you can consider your solution a success.
Next, I'm going to set the second argument for each element to know.
We aren't going to add attributes to our elements.
Lastly, I'm going to add dummy text to each element.
Overall, your solution should be similar to mine.
If we were to save our changes, the page should reflect our changes.
Creating multiple elements is cool, but why would we want to use React?
Recreating this behavior can be done through plain HTML.
JavaScript isn't necessary.
Truthfully, this example demonstrates what React can do, but not why we would want to use it.
React shines when trying to render dynamic content.
Let's look at an example in the next lecture.